# Classifying Streaming Providers inside a VPN
Jerry Qian, Molly Rowland, Arely Vasquez, Chang Yuan, and Raimundo Castro

## Research Question: Can we identify what streaming service provider is being used across a VPN tunnel? How does adding live video affect the model classification? 
 **Site Guide**:
- [Project Purpose](#project-purpose)
- [Key Terms](#key-terms)
- [Understanding VPNs](#understanding-vpns)
- [The Data](#the-data)
  - [Youtube](#youtube)
  - [Netflix](#netflix)
  - [Amazon Prime](#amazon-prime)
  - [Twitch](#twitch)
  - [Youtube Live](#youtube-live)
  - [Other](#other)
- [Comparing the Providers](#comparing-the-providers)
- [The Classifier](#the-classifier)
- [Discussions](#discussions)


## Project Purpose
Over the past two quarters, we have been working with Viasat to understand internet traffic across a VPN. Last quarter, we worked on creating a classifier that was able to idenitify if video was being streamed on a VPN or there was just normal browsing occuring. This prompted our group to take this previous classifier a step further to identify what streaming service provider is being used. With the baseline of identifying video, knowing the service provider provides another layer of information that is valuable for Viasat. 
### When might this information be used?
When it comes to classifying which streaming service provider is being used in a VPN, there are many reasons to collect it. In working with Viasat, their goal as an Internet Service Provider is to offer the best quality experience for their customers. So if they set certain network parameters in place, such as max download rates, certain providers could be more heavily affected. By studying the network patterns of some different service providers and making a tool to classify them, this information can be used to help tune network parameters to optimize streaming for their clients. 


### Key Terms!
- Virtual Private Network (VPN): creates a private network across a public network
- Packet: formatted unit of data carrying information on where to send data and the payload of data
- Byte: data contained in the packet, group of 8 bits 
- Live video: video that is being created and streamed at the same time
- Video on Demand: video that is created and stored on a server accessible at a later time 

## Understanding VPNs
VPNs create a secure network connection over public networks. Some uses for them are protecting data, accessing remote computers, and by passing geographically restricted streaming libraries. Whatever the reason you are using the VPN, you want a fast connection 

## The Data
The dataset used in this project was generated by our group of 5 students,with the live video sourced from the live video vs video on demand classifying group. We collected data on our personal computers using a script provided by Viasat called Network Stats. The script collects packet data being sent and recieved by our computers. We ran our scripts in conditions that were inside a VPN, at one times speed, and had no additional noise occurring during the capture. 

### Youtube
### Netflix
### Amazon Prime
### Twitch 
### Youtube Live
### Other

## Comparing the Providers
compare different providers ie Netflix vs youtube vs amazon prime vs other
amazon prime vs twitch
youtube live vs twitch
twitch vs youtube live

## The Classifier 
what classifier, features, accuracy 

## Discussions 

# Thank you!
